BK0010.01

Year	1987
RAM	32 kB
ROM	32 kB
CPU	K1801VM1 3 MHz
Graph	512x256x2, 256x256x4
In ROM	Basic
Group	BK0010

BK0010.01 is a improved version of the BK0010 computer. Computer PCB, processor,
performance, amount of RAM is not changed and new equipment did not appear. This
is what has changed:

The flat keyboard BK0010 was beautiful and easy to repair, but the printing on
it was not convenient. In BK0010.01, a normal keyboard was installed. The keys
of which had big move. But this keyboard had a very strong bounce of contacts.
If slowly press the key to the end, then the computer will print 3-5 characters,
so users of BK0010.01 had a special way of printing, fast and weak touches.

The new keyboard did not fit in the old case. They did not make a new case. They
added to the previous case 4 slats increasing its height. Because of this it
became possible to disassemble the computer without breaking the seal. Worth
only pull out the slats and the upper part of the case can be unscrewed, gain
access to the insides of a computer.

The unpopular programming language Focal, which was flashed into the computer's
ROM, changed to BASIC. Moreover, BASIC was not an interpreter, but a compiler in
threaded code. This means that the program runs faster, but the RAM spending 
more.

The ability to program in Focal was retained. For BK0010.01 they released an
external expansion unit called MSTD, which contained a ROM with Focal language
and selftest programs. It may seem that the MSTD block is a step into the past,
but no. For the sake of this block, engineers added the ability to disable the
internal ROM, which in the future allowed to increase the RAM of the computer,
produce a RAM extension unit.

A mysterious inscription "CAGLRCCC.R" appeared in the upper left corner of the
screen. And you don't guess what it is if no one tells you. It's a hint to you
what's hot keys AP2+1 .. AP2+0 display the words: COLOR, AUTO, GOTO, LIST, RUN,
COLOR 1.0, CLOAD, CONT, ., RUN.

And also in BK0010.01 there was always soldered details (probably always) for a
color video output.
