Radio-86RK (Радио-86РК)

Year:	1986
RAM:	16 - 32 kB
ROM:	2 kB
CPU:	i8080 1.7 MHz
Text:	64x25x2
Graph:	128x62x2
Group:	Radio 86RK

The Radio 86RK computer appeared in the form of diagrams in Radio magazine in
1986 (No. 4-6). It was a very simple computer: 9 large chips, 11 small ones, and
8 memory chips. Some chips could not be installed.

The computer is simple, because the video is assembled on the i8275 and i8257
chips. Those chips can show color video mode, but for the sake of simplicity,
this feature was not used in Radio 86RK.

The i8275 chip can only display the text mode using only 128 characters. The
character generator of Radio 86RK contains english and russian letters, but the
small character generator was only enough for capital letters. There are no
lowercase letters. Also, 16 pseudo-graphic symbols were placed in the character
generator, dividing the familiarity in half in width and height. Thanks to them,
it is possible to implement pseudo-graphic mode 128x62.

The video adapter slowed down the processor unpredictably while reading the RAM,
so the program execution time could not be calculated. And this is necessary for
the correct operation of the program for loading and saving to a tape recorder.
Therefore, during boot from the tape recorder, the video controller turned off
and the user see a black screen.

A little later, many factories decided to produce this computer. Moreover, they
were released in different cases with different keyboards and under different
names: Radio 86RK, Krista, Partner 01.01, Microsha, Electronica KR, Spectr 001,
Micko 88, Geofit, Elix-89, Quantor BK, Apogey BK01, Alfa BK ... Some computers
were significantly expanded, for example, 56 kB of RAM, a three-channel sound
generator were installed in Apogey BK01C, color was added and a 192×128
pseudographic mode was added (against 128×62 for the original computer). Most of
the 86RK computers produced were not compatible with each other.
