Electronica MS6312

Year:	â‰¤1991

Elektronica MS6312 is a Soviet inkjet printer. Cartridge with liquid ink is used
in inkjet printers. Ink is pushing out of the cartridge on the paper sheet. In
this printer, pushing occurs due to fast heating ink. A tiny part of the ink is
heated and the wapour push emitted a tiny drop of ink on a sheet of paper. This
printing principle is quieter, faster and better quality than dot matrix
printers.

In the late 80s, dot matrix printer was a dream. Matrix and inkjet printers are
very similar. In these printers, the print head moves left and right on a sheet
of paper, slowly drawing letters and pictures. Matrix printers use an ink
ribbon. Metal needles hit the tape dozens of times per second. The needles are
pressed ink ribbon to a sheet of paper. They squeeze the ink out of the tape,
leaving ink on the sheet. Sometimes dry-dye plastic tapes are used, but the
essence it doesn't change. It's slow, noisy and poor quality. But at that time
many people who use computers could not even imagine that there are other
printers. Quieter and faster. Printers that can be lifted with one hand. Like
the "Electronics MS6312" printer.

The Electronics MS6312 printer uses a Soviet print head. Such head is no longer
available for sale. But we must praise the engineers, because fastening and
contacts of the Soviet head are fully compatible with the imported head
HP51604A. This head can still be found in stores. The imported head is higher
supply voltage, so you need to replace the zener diode on the printer PCB. It
described in the instructions for the printer.

The PCB contains a standard circuit based on the KR580VM80A (i8080)
microprocessor. Each KR580VV55A (i8255) chip is a 24-bit parallel port, that is,
a GPIO. Chip KR573RU10 (HM6516-9) is 2 kilobytes of RAM. White chip KR573RF4A
(2764) is 8 kilobytes of ROM. This is where the printer program is stored. The
small KR580GF24 (i8224) is a master clock. All together it's almost ATMega8 
microcontroller. The remaining microcircuits are current amplifiers and simple
logics.
